README.md, before:

# Thesis 🏆 

This project is the Master's thesis of Emil (@emiloh) and Andreas (@arnenator) at the IT University of Copenhagen. The objective of this research is to evaluate the impact of an NVMe SSD with Flexible Data Placement when implemented in a Database System. Specifically, the focus is on analyzing Write Amplification (WA).

## Acknowledgements

This project is accomplished with collaboration from Samsung Memory Research Center (SMRC) and supervised by Pinar Tözün, Marcel Weisgut, and Vivek Shah. [SMRC](https://smrc.biz.samsung.com/)  is an open collaborative space for members
of the Samsung Memory Division, partners, and customers to find good software & hardware solutions related to SSDs together.

## Building nvmefs 🛠️

To build nvmefs, it is necessary to install the required tools beforehand. Alternatively, you can use the development container, which comes with all prerequisites pre-installed.

After prerequisties are installed type in:

```bash
cd nvmefs/
GEN=ninja make release
```

The build binaries are stored in `nvmefs/build/release` and the extension that can be loaded into client programs is stored in `nvmefs/build/release/extension/nvmefs/nvmefs.duckdb_extension`

Commit message:

Update README (#98)
* Add ds_store files to gitignore

* Update readme with prerequisites

* Include that the nvmefs has to be built before running the benchmarks

* Remove the sourcing of dedicated user env variables

This should be up to the user to ensure that the environment can reference the proper binaries and variables

* Add description of the required environment variables

* Bump nvmefs to current main

README.md, after:

# Thesis 🏆 

This project is the Master's thesis of Emil (@emiloh) and Andreas (@arnenator) at the IT University of Copenhagen. The objective of this research is to evaluate the impact of an NVMe SSD with Flexible Data Placement when implemented in a Database System. Specifically, the focus is on analyzing Write Amplification (WA).

## Acknowledgements

This project is accomplished with collaboration from Samsung Memory Research Center (SMRC) and supervised by Pinar Tözün, Marcel Weisgut, and Vivek Shah. [SMRC](https://smrc.biz.samsung.com/)  is an open collaborative space for members
of the Samsung Memory Division, partners, and customers to find good software & hardware solutions related to SSDs together.

## How to git clone our project

Our project heavily relies on the contents from the referenced Git submodules. In order to properly clone our project type the following:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/Tietgen-ITU/thesis.git --recurse-submodule
```

## Building nvmefs 🛠️

To build nvmefs, it is necessary to install the required tools beforehand. You can find more information about what is necessary to build nvmefs in the [projects readme](./nvmefs/README.md)

Alternatively, you can use the development container, which comes with all prerequisites pre-installed.

After prerequisties are installed type in:

```bash
cd nvmefs/
GEN=ninja make release
```
The build binaries are stored in `nvmefs/build/release` and the extension that can be loaded into client programs is stored in `nvmefs/build/release/extension/nvmefs/nvmefs.duckdb_extension`
