docs/duckdb/buffer-manager.md, before:

# Buffer Manager

In here we are going to describe how the `BufferManager` works, to be specific, when and how it decides to spill memory blocks to disk. 

The `BufferManager` in DuckDB is an abstract class. For that reason our attention is shifted towards the concrete implementation in DuckDB, called `StandardBufferManager`(SBM).



```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    participant PhysicalOperator
    participant StandardBufferManager
    participant BufferPool
    participant EvictionQueue
    participant BlockHandle

    PhysicalOperator ->> StandardBufferManager: Allocate()
    StandardBufferManager->>StandardBufferManager: RegisterMemory()
    StandardBufferManager->>StandardBufferManager: EvictBlocksOrThrow(tag, memory_delta, buf, args)
    StandardBufferManager->>BufferPool: EvictBlocks()
        loop Eviction Queues
            rect rgb(50, 137, 168, 0.1)
                BufferPool->>BufferPool: EvictBlocksInternal()
                alt used_memory < memory_limit
                    BufferPool -->> BufferPool: Return pool reservation
                else
                BufferPool->>EvictionQueue: IterateUnloadableBlocks()
                EvictionQueue->>EvictionQueue: try_dequeue an EvictionNode
                EvictionQueue->>EvictionQueue: TryGetBlockHandle()
                EvictionQueue->>BlockHandle: GetLock()
                BlockHandle-->>EvictionQueue: return lock
                rect rgb(135, 50, 168, 0.1)
                    EvictionQueue->>BufferPool: fn(node, blockHandle, lock)         
                    BufferPool->>BlockHandle: blockHandle.UnloadAndTakeBlock()
                    BlockHandle->>StandardBufferManager: WriteToTemporaryBuffer()
                    BlockHandle-->>BufferPool: return buffer
                    BufferPool-->>EvictionQueue: return result
                end
                EvictionQueue-->>BufferPool: return result
                BufferPool-->>BufferPool: return pool reservation
            end
        end
    end
    BufferPool-->>StandardBufferManager: return block_result

```

## Descriptions of functions

### `StandardBufferManager`

#### `EvictBlocksOrThrow()`

It has four parameters:

- `MemoryTag tag`
- `idx_t memory_delta`
- `unique_ptr<FileBuffer>` *buffer
- `ARGS... args`

It doesn't do much. It calls the `BufferPool::EvictBlocks()` function and delegates the responsibility of allocating a block of memory. If a block of memory is returned it will `Pin` the block

### `BufferPool`

#### `EvictBlocks()`

It has four parameters:

- `MemoryTag tag`
- `idx_t extra_memory`
- `idx_t memory_limit`
- `unique_ptr<FileBuffer>` *buffer

It calls the `EvictBlocksInternal()` for each eviction queue until a successful result is returned or that the last queue is reached. 

**What is a successful result?**

A successful result is when the `EvictBlocksInternal()` returns an `EvictionResult` with `true`.

#### `EvictBlocksInternal()`

This function has three steps:

a. Check if there is available space of memory that can be used

Commit message:

Change the originating callor of Allocate
This includes a description of what this participant means and where in the call stack is located compared to the physical operators

docs/duckdb/buffer-manager.md, after:

# Buffer Manager

In here we are going to describe how the `BufferManager` works, to be specific, when and how it decides to spill memory blocks to disk. 

The `BufferManager` in DuckDB is an abstract class. For that reason our attention is shifted towards the concrete implementation in DuckDB, called `StandardBufferManager`(SBM).



```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    participant ColumnOrRowDataAllocator
    participant StandardBufferManager
    participant BufferPool
    participant EvictionQueue
    participant BlockHandle

    ColumnOrRowDataAllocator ->> StandardBufferManager: Allocate()
    StandardBufferManager->>StandardBufferManager: RegisterMemory()
    StandardBufferManager->>StandardBufferManager: EvictBlocksOrThrow(tag, memory_delta, buf, args)
    StandardBufferManager->>BufferPool: EvictBlocks()
        loop Eviction Queues
            rect rgb(50, 137, 168, 0.1)
                BufferPool->>BufferPool: EvictBlocksInternal()
                alt used_memory < memory_limit
                    BufferPool -->> BufferPool: Return pool reservation
                else
                BufferPool->>EvictionQueue: IterateUnloadableBlocks()
                EvictionQueue->>EvictionQueue: try_dequeue an EvictionNode
                EvictionQueue->>EvictionQueue: TryGetBlockHandle()
                EvictionQueue->>BlockHandle: GetLock()
                BlockHandle-->>EvictionQueue: return lock
                rect rgb(135, 50, 168, 0.1)
                    EvictionQueue->>BufferPool: fn(node, blockHandle, lock)         
                    BufferPool->>BlockHandle: blockHandle.UnloadAndTakeBlock()
                    BlockHandle->>StandardBufferManager: WriteToTemporaryBuffer()
                    BlockHandle-->>BufferPool: return buffer
                    BufferPool-->>EvictionQueue: return result
                end
                EvictionQueue-->>BufferPool: return result
                BufferPool-->>BufferPool: return pool reservation
            end
        end
    end
    BufferPool-->>StandardBufferManager: return block_result

```

The `ColumnOrRowDataAllocator` represents the two type of memory allocators for DuckDB that the physical operators interacts with. These two classes are called `ColumnDataAllocator` and `RowDataAllocator`.

## Descriptions of functions

### `StandardBufferManager`

#### `EvictBlocksOrThrow()`

It has four parameters:

- `MemoryTag tag`
- `idx_t memory_delta`
- `unique_ptr<FileBuffer>` *buffer
- `ARGS... args`

It doesn't do much. It calls the `BufferPool::EvictBlocks()` function and delegates the responsibility of allocating a block of memory. If a block of memory is returned it will `Pin` the block

### `BufferPool`

#### `EvictBlocks()`

It has four parameters:

- `MemoryTag tag`
- `idx_t extra_memory`
- `idx_t memory_limit`
- `unique_ptr<FileBuffer>` *buffer

It calls the `EvictBlocksInternal()` for each eviction queue until a successful result is returned or that the last queue is reached. 

**What is a successful result?**

A successful result is when the `EvictBlocksInternal()` returns an `EvictionResult` with `true`.

#### `EvictBlocksInternal()`

This function has three steps:

a. Check if there is available space of memory that can be used
